Nearly 56% of at-risk carriers are not identified and missed as a result of the current family-history (FH) screening for genetic testing. The present study aims to review the economic evaluation studies on BRCA genetic testing strategies for screening and early detection of breast cancer.This systematic literature review is conducted within the Cochrane Library, PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, ProQuest, and EMBASE databases. In this paper, the relevant published economic evaluation studies are identified by following the standard Cochrane Collaboration methods and adherence to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) statement reporting some recommendations for articles up to March 2020. Thereafter, the inclusion and exclusion criteria are applied to screen the articles. Disagreements are resolved through a consensus meeting. The Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) checklist is used in the evaluation of quality. Finally, a narrative synthesis is performed. To compare the different levels of incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), the net present value is calculated based on a discount rate of 3% in 2019.Among 788 initially retrieved citations, 12 studies were included. More than 60% of the studies were originated from high-income countries and were published after 2016. It is noteworthy that most of the studies evaluated the payer perspective. Moreover, the robustness of the results were analyzed through one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses in nearly 66% of these studies. Nearly, 25% of the studies are focused and defined population-based and family history BRCA tests as comparators; afterwards, the cost-effectiveness of the former was confirmed. The highest and lowest absolute values for the ICERs were $65,661 and $9 per quality adjusted life years, respectively. All studies met over 70% of the CHEERs criteria checklist, which was considered as 93% of high quality on average as well.The genetic BRCA tests for the general population as well as unselected breast cancer patients were cost-effective in high and upper-middle income countries and those with prevalence of gene mutation while population-based genetic tests for low-middle income countries are depended on the price of the tests.Breast cancer cells frequently acquire mutations in faithful DNA repair genes, as exemplified by BRCA-deficiency. Moreover, overexpression of an inaccurate DNA repair pathway may also be at the origin of the genetic instability arising during the course of cancer progression. The specific gain in expression of POLQ, encoding the error-prone DNA polymerase Theta (POLθ) involved in theta-mediated end joining (TMEJ), is associated with a characteristic mutational signature. To gain insight into the mechanistic regulation of POLQ expression, this review briefly presents recent findings on the regulation of POLQ in the claudin-low breast tumor subtype, specifically expressing transcription factors involved in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) such as ZEB1 and displaying a paucity in genomic abnormality.Over the past decade, the gut microbiota has received considerable attention for its interactions with the host. Microbial β-glucuronidase generated by this community has hence aroused concern for its biotransformation activity to a wide range of exogenous (foreign) and endogenous compounds. Lately, the role of gut microbial β-glucuronidase in the pathogenesis of breast cancer has been proposed for its estrogen reactivation activity. This is plausible considering that estrogen glucuronides are the primary products of estrogens' hepatic phase II metabolism and are subject to β-glucuronidase-catalyzed hydrolysis in the gut via bile excretion. However, research in this field is still at its very preliminary stage. This review outlines the biology of microbial β-glucuronidase in the gastrointestinal tract and elaborates on the clues to the existence of microbial β-glucuronidase-estrogen metabolism-breast cancer axis. The research gaps in this field will be discussed and possible strategies to address these challenges are suggested.Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), characterized by the absence of estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, or human epidermal growth factor receptor-2, affects nearly 15% of women with breast cancer. To date, the mainstay of treatment remains chemotherapy, with all the associated consequences, such as the significant toxicity and the suboptimal effect on the five-year survival rates. RNA-expression profiling showed that TNBC is biologically a heterogeneous malignancy. Therefore, predictive biomarkers matched with the diverse subtypes of TNBC could classify patients that would most benefit from a certain targeted treatment. Three biomarker-driven therapies are currently available: poly-adenosine diphosphate (ADP) ribose polymerase inhibitors for patients with germline BReast CAncer gene (BRCA) mutations, atezolizumab combined with nab-paclitaxel for patients expressing programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) on tumor-infiltrating immune cells, and sacituzumab govitecan, an antibody-drug conjugate targeting human trophoblast cell-surface antigen 2 (TROP-2). Identifying predictive biomarkers is crucial for the optimum generation and implementation of targeted agents for TNBC, while further relevant treatments are in the pipeline given the promising results in clinical trials. Finally, newly developed immunotherapies and other targeted agents should also be investigated in earlier stages of the disease, especially in the neoadjuvant setting, broadening the therapeutic application of such regimens.Adult weight gain is a good indicator of excess body fatness for breast cancer risk. However, little is known about the effect of weight gain during other special periods in women's lifetime. A publication search in PubMed and Embase through April 2020 was conducted. A primary meta-analysis comparing the highest and lowest category and a secondary meta-analysis based on dose-response meta-analysis were performed to calculate risk estimates with 95% confidence intervals using a random-effects model. For postmenopausal breast cancer, the relative risk for highest vs. lowest category of adult weight gain and weight gain since menopause were 1.55 and 1.59 (RR = 1.55, 95% CI: 1.40, 1.71; RR = 1.59, 95% CI: 1.23, 2.05). For per 5 kg increase in adult weight gain, the summary RR of postmenopausal breast cancer was 1.08 (RR = 1.08, 95% CI: 1.07, 1.09), which is much stronger in Asian women (RR = 1.34, 95% CI: 1.22, 1.47). There was no significant finding among premenopausal women (RR = 1.00, 95% CI: 0.83, 1.21). Same as adult weight gain, weight gain since menopause might be an equivalent predictor for postmenopausal breast cancer risk. More studies are warranted to confirm the magnitude of this association further.Introduction: Cancer is the leading cause of death globally according to WHO in 2020. It is initiated by genetic mutations that occur due to numerous factors. The aim of the review: This review provides a clear view of the potential use of chromosome 6 open reading frame 106 (C6orf106) as a biomarker, based on previous studies. Results: Recent studies have investigated the association of C6orf106 with breast cancer and non-small cell lung cancer and showed that silencing C6orf106 leads to inhibition of malignancy in both diseases, as well as showing a positive correlation between C6orf106 expression and malignancy. Other studies demonstrated the interaction of C6orf106 with other malignancy factors that play a role in many cancer types, such as cyclin A2, cyclin B1, N-cadherin, E-cadherin, c-MYC, p120ctn, and vimentin. These factors play a significant role in cellular adhesion and the regulation of the cell cycle. C6orf106 is a potential target for numerous cancers, not only non-small cell lung cancer and breast cancer. In conclusion: understanding the connection of C6orf106 with crucial malignancy factors makes it clear that C6orf106 is a potential therapeutic target and diagnostic biomarker for many disease cancer.Transgender women are increasingly evaluated in breast imaging centers. Radiologists should be familiar with a range of imaging findings related to feminizing hormone therapy and breast augmentations as well as benign and malignant lesions seen in this population. A growing body of literature has suggested that feminizing hormone therapy may increase the risk of breast cancer, prompting professional organizations to develop screening guidelines. The aim of this paper is to review common breast imaging findings in transgender women, recent data on the association between feminizing hormone therapy and breast cancer, and guidelines for breast cancer screening. Knowing these unique imaging features in transgender women is essential for providing competent care and reducing health care disparities.This meta-analysis aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of poly (adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors in BRCA-mutated advanced breast cancer patients comprehensively.We conducted a systematic literature research through PubMed, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Embase, China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), wanfang, China Biology Medicine disc (CBMdisc), and ClinicalTrials.gov from inception to January 2021. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with available data comparing PARP inhibitors versus control therapy in BRCA-mutated advanced breast cancer were eligible for analysis. Statistical analyses were performed with Review Manager (RevMan) version 5.4 and R version 4.0.3.1706 studies were retrieved in total, and 4 RCTs with 1540 patients were eligible for meta-analysis finally. The results showed that progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were significantly improved in germline BRCA-mutated breast cancer patients with PARP inhibitors (HR 0.64, 95% CI [0.56-0.74]; HR 0.86, 95% CI [0.74-0.99], respectively) with no significant heterogeneity across studies (I2 = 22%, χ2 p = 0.28; I2 = 0%, χ2 p = 0.70, respectively). There was no significant difference in the overall adverse events (AEs), grade≥3 AEs and AEs leading to treatment discontinuation between PARP inhibitor arms and control arms (RR 1.01, 95% CI [0.99-1.02]; RR 0.95, 95% CI [0.83-1.09]; RR 1.17, 95% CI [0.87-1.57], respectively). Based on the available data, PARP inhibitors provided comparable or better results than control arms in improving the quality of life in BRCA-mutated advanced breast cancer patients.PARP inhibitors prolonged PFS and OS among patients with BRCA-mutated advanced breast cancer with tolerable safety and improved quality of life.PIM kinases are well-studied drug targets for cancer, belonging to Serine/Threonine kinases family. They are the downstream target of various signaling pathways, and their up/down-regulation affects various physiological processes. PIM family comprises three isoforms, namely, PIM-1, PIM-2, and PIM-3, on alternative initiation of translation and they have different levels of expression in different types of cancers. Its structure shows a unique ATP-binding site in the hinge region which makes it unique among other kinases.PIM kinases are widely reported in hematological malignancies along with prostate and breast cancer. Currently, many drugs are used as an inhibitor of PIM kinases. In this review, we highlighted the physiological significance of PIM kinases in the context of disease progression and therapeutic targeting. We comprehensively reviewed the PIM kinases in terms of their expression and regulation of different physiological roles. We further predicted functional partners of PIM kinases to elucidate their role in the cellular physiology of different cancer and mapped their interaction network.A deeper mechanistic insight into the PIM signaling involved in regulating different cellular processes, including transcription, apoptosis, cell cycle regulation, cell proliferation, cell migration and senescence, is provided. Furthermore, structural features of PIM have been dissected to understand the mechanism of inhibition and subsequent implication of designed inhibitors towards therapeutic management of prostate, breast and other cancers. Being a potential drug target for cancer therapy, available drugs and PIM inhibitors at different stages of clinical trials are discussed in detail.Breast cancer (BC), a heterogeneous, aggressive illness with high mortality, is essentially a genomic disease. While the high-penetrance genes BRCA1 and BRCA2 play important roles in tumorigenesis, moderate- and low-penetrance genes are also involved. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in microRNA (miRNA) genes have recently been identified as BC risk factors. miRNA genes are currently classified as low-penetrance. SNPs are the most common variations in the human genome. While the role of miRNA SNPs in BC susceptibility has been studied extensively, results have been inconsistent. This review analyzes the results of association studies between miRNA SNPs and BC risk from countries around the world. We conclude that: (a) By continent, the largest proportion of studies to date were conducted in Asia (65.0 %) and the smallest proportion in Africa (1.8 %); (b) Association studies have been completed for 67 different SNPs; (c) 146a, 196a2, 499, 27a, and 423 are the most-studied miRNAs; (d) The SNPs rs2910164 (miRNA-146a), rs11614913 (miRNA-196a2), rs3746444 (miRNA-499) and rs6505162 (miRNA-423) were the most widely associated with increased BC risk; (e) The majority of studies had small samples, which may affect the precision and power of the results; and (f) The effect of an SNP on BC risk depends on the ethnicity of the population. This review also discusses potential explanations for controversial findings.