Inflammation plays an important role in several stages of the cardiovascular continuum. In recent decades a plethora of studies have provided new data highlighting the role of inflammation in atherogenesis and atherothrombosis in two-way interactions with various cardiovascular risk factors and further influencing these dynamic processes. The concept of targeting residual inflammatory risk among individuals with ischemic heart disease (IHD) is therefore gaining increasing attention. Recently, several landmark randomized controlled trials have assessed different pharmacological approaches that may mitigate this residual risk. The results of some of these studies, such as CANTOS with canakinumab and COLCOT and LoDoCo2 with colchicine, are promising and have provided data to support this concept. Moreover, though several aspects remain to be clarified, these trials have shown the potential of modulating inflammation as a new target to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in secondary prevention patients. In the present review, we aim to present a pragmatic overview of the complex interplay between inflammation and IHD, and to critically appraise the current evidence on this issue while presenting future perspectives on this topic of pivotal contemporary interest.Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the pathogen responsible for the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) global pandemic. Because it is a new and highly contagious coronavirus, most people, especially pregnant women, lack immunity. It is therefore important to understand the interaction between why pregnant women are susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 and the specific immune systems of pregnant women. Here, we provide an overview of the changes that occur in the immune system during pregnancy, the activation and response of the immune system in pregnant women with COVID-19, adverse pregnancy outcomes in pregnant women with COVID-19, and the treatment and prevention of COVID-19 in this population.The diagnostic challenges associated with type 2 myocardial infarction (T2MI) evolve around an extensive evidence base. T2MI is a type of MI that occurs secondary to ischemia due to increased demand or decreased oxygen supply. This classification has been used for the last 5 years, yet there is little understanding of the characteristics and clinical outcomes. According to a survey, T2M1 can be caused mainly by different factors such as anemia (31%), sepsis (24%), and arrhythmia (17%). Other associated factors, such as age and gender, also play a part in the disease. The pathology behind T2MI is the rise and fall of cardiac troponin values with at least one value above the 99 percentile and evidence of an imbalance unrelated to coronary thrombosis. The diagnosis of the condition is evidence-based backed up with imaging techniques. The treatment of T2MI may involve blood pressure management, administration of blood products, heart rate control, and respiratory support. Depending on the clinical presentation, coronary evaluations can be used to assess the likelihood of coronary artery disease (CAD). If indicated, the MI guidelines may apply to CAD. If it shows, the MI guidelines may use electrocardiography findings of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) or non-STEMI. However, the absence of CAD indicates that the benefits of cardiovascular risk reduction strategies with T2MI remain uncertain.Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is one of the most important diseases endangering human life. The pathogenesis of CVDs is complex. Pyroptosis, which differs from traditional apoptosis and necrosis, is characterized by cell swelling until membrane rupture, resulting in the release of cell contents and activation of a strong inflammatory response. Recent studies have revealed that inflammation and pyroptosis play important roles in the progression of CVDs. Noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) are considered promising biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for the diagnosis and treatment of various diseases, including CVDs. Growing evidence has revealed that ncRNAs can mediate the transcriptional or posttranscriptional regulation of pyroptosis-related genes by participating in the pyroptosis regulatory network. The role and molecular mechanism of pyroptosis-regulating ncRNAs in cardiovascular pathologies are attracting increasing attention. Here, we summarize research progress on pyroptosis and the role of ncRNAs, particularly microRNAs (miRNAs), long ncRNAs (lncRNAs), and circular RNAs (circRNAs), in the regulation of pyroptosis in CVD pathologies. Identifying these disease-related ncRNAs is important for understanding the pathogenesis of CVDs and providing new targets and ideas for their prevention and treatment.The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic represents an ongoing healthcare emergency responsible for more than 3.4 million deaths worldwide. COVID-19 is the disease caused by SARS-CoV-2, a virus that targets not only the lungs but also the cardiovascular system. COVID-19 can manifest with a wide range of clinical manifestations, from mild symptoms to severe forms of the disease, characterized by respiratory failure due to severe alveolar damage. Several studies investigated the underlying mechanisms of the severe lung damage associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection and revealed that the respiratory failure associated with COVID-19 is the consequence not only of acute respiratory distress syndrome but also of macro- and microvascular involvement. New observations show that COVID-19 is an endothelial disease, and the consequent endotheliopathy is responsible for inflammation, cytokine storm, oxidative stress, and coagulopathy. In this review, we show the central role of endothelial dysfunction, inflammation, and oxidative stress in the COVID-19 pathogenesis and present the therapeutic targets deriving from this endotheliopathy.Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. However, our understanding of its underlying biology and the number of available treatment options remain limited. Mendelian randomization (MR) offers a powerful approach to identify novel biological pathways and therapeutic targets for this disease. Around ~100 MR studies have been conducted so far to explore, confirm, and quantify causal relationships between several exposures and risk of stroke. In this review, we summarize the current evidence arising from these studies, including those investigating ischemic stroke, hemorrhagic stroke, or both. We highlight the different types of exposures that are currently under study, ranging from well-known cardiovascular risk factors to less established inflammation-related mechanisms. Finally, we provide an overview of future avenues of research and novel approaches, including drug target validation MR, which is poised to have a substantial impact on drug development and drug repurposing.Perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) is the connective tissue around most blood vessels throughout the body. It provides mechanical support and maintains vascular homeostasis in a paracrine/endocrine manner. Under physiological conditions, PVAT has anti-inflammatory effects, improves free fatty acid metabolism, and regulates vasodilation. In pathological conditions, PVAT is dysfunctional, secretes many anti-vasodilator factors, and participates in vascular inflammation through various cells and mediators; thus, it causes dysfunction involving vascular smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells. Inflammation is an important pathophysiological event in many vascular diseases, such as vascular aging, atherosclerosis, and hypertension. Therefore, the pro-inflammatory crosstalk between PVAT and blood vessels may comprise a novel therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of vascular diseases. In this review, we summarize findings concerning PVAT function and inflammation in different pathophysiological backgrounds, focusing on the secretory functions of PVAT and the crosstalk between PVAT and vascular inflammation in terms of vascular aging, atherosclerosis, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and other diseases. We also discuss anti-inflammatory treatment for potential vascular diseases involving PVAT.Time-restricted eating (TRE), a dietary approach limiting the daily eating window, has attracted increasing attention in media and research. The eating behavior in our modern society is often characterized by prolonged and erratic daily eating patterns, which might be associated with increased risk of obesity, diabetes, and cardiovascular diseases. In contrast, recent evidence suggests that TRE might support weight loss, improve cardiometabolic health, and overall wellbeing, but the data are controversial. The present work reviews how TRE affects glucose and lipid metabolism based on clinical trials published until June 2021. A range of trials demonstrated that TRE intervention lowered fasting and postprandial glucose levels in response to a standard meal or oral glucose tolerance test, as well as mean 24-h glucose and glycemic excursions assessed using continuous glucose monitoring. In addition, fasting insulin decreases and improvement of insulin sensitivity were demonstrated. These changes were often accompanied by the decrease of blood triglyceride and cholesterol levels. However, a number of studies found that TRE had either adverse or no effects on glycemic and lipid traits, which might be explained by the different study designs (i.e., fasting/eating duration, daytime of eating, changes of calorie intake, duration of intervention) and study subject cohorts (metabolic status, age, gender, chronotype, etc.). To summarize, TRE represents an attractive and easy-to-adapt dietary strategy for the prevention and therapy of glucose and lipid metabolic disturbances. However, carefully controlled future TRE studies are needed to confirm these effects to understand the underlying mechanisms and assess the applicability of personalized interventions.Obesity is characterized by pathological adipose tissue (AT) expansion. While healthy AT expansion enhances systemic insulin sensitivity, unhealthy AT expansion through increased adipocyte size is associated with insulin resistance, fibrosis, hypoxia, and reduced adipose-derived adiponectin secretion. The mechanisms causing the unhealthy AT expansion are not fully elucidated; yet, dysregulated crosstalk between cells within the AT is an important contributor. Evidence from animal and human studies suggests a crucial role of the crosstalk between vascular endothelium (the innermost cell type in blood vessels) and adipocytes for metabolic homeostasis. Arterial endothelial cells are directly involved in maintaining normal organ functions through local blood flow regulation. The endothelial-dependent regulation of blood flow in AT is hampered in obesity, which negatively affects the adipocyte. Moreover, endothelial cells secrete extracellular vesicles (EVs) that target adipocytes in vivo. The endothelial EVs secretion is hampered in obesity and may be affected by the adipocyte-derived adipokine adiponectin. Adiponectin targets the vascular endothelium, eliciting organ-protective functions through binding to T-cadherin. The reduced obesity-induced adiponectin binding of T-cadherin reduces endothelial EV secretion. This affects endothelial health and cell-cell communication between AT cells and distant organs, influencing systemic energy homeostasis. This review focuses on the current understanding of endothelial and adipocyte crosstalk. We will discuss how obesity changes the AT environment and how these changes contribute to obesity-associated metabolic disease in humans. Particularly, we will describe and discuss the EV-dependent communication and regulation between adipocytes, adiponectin, and the endothelial cells regulating systemic energy homeostasis in health and metabolic disease in humans.Inflammation plays an important role in several stages of the cardiovascular continuum. In recent decades a plethora of studies have provided new data highlighting the role of inflammation in atherogenesis and atherothrombosis in two-way interactions with various cardiovascular risk factors and further influencing these dynamic processes. The concept of targeting residual inflammatory risk among individuals with ischemic heart disease (IHD) is therefore gaining increasing attention. Recently, several landmark randomized controlled trials have assessed different pharmacological approaches that may mitigate this residual risk. The results of some of these studies, such as CANTOS with canakinumab and COLCOT and LoDoCo2 with colchicine, are promising and have provided data to support this concept. Moreover, though several aspects remain to be clarified, these trials have shown the potential of modulating inflammation as a new target to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in secondary prevention patients. In the present review, we aim to present a pragmatic overview of the complex interplay between inflammation and IHD, and to critically appraise the current evidence on this issue while presenting future perspectives on this topic of pivotal contemporary interest.