Kidney transplantation is the best therapy for end-stage renal disease. Demand for kidney transplantation rises year-on-year, and the gap between kidney supply and demand remains large. To meet this clinical need, a gradual expansion in the supply of donors is required. However, clinics lack appropriate tools capable of quickly and accurately predicting post-transplant renal allograft function, and thus assess donor-kidney quality before transplantation. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is a key component of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) and plays an important part in ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI), accelerating the progression of IRI by inducing inflammation and type I interferon responses. mtDNA is known to be closely involved in delayed graft function (DGF) and acute kidney injury (AKI) after transplantation. Thus, mtDNA is a potential biomarker able to predict post-transplant renal allograft function. This review summarizes mtDNA biology, the role mtDNA plays in renal transplantation, outlines advances in detecting mtDNA, and details mtDNA's able to predict post-transplant renal allograft function. We aim to elucidate the potential value of mtDNA as a biomarker in the prediction of IRI, and eventually provide help for predicting donor-kidney quality. Leigh syndrome is a rare, complex, and incurable early onset (typically infant or early childhood) mitochondrial disorder with both phenotypic and genetic heterogeneity. The heterogeneous nature of this disorder, based in part on the complexity of mitochondrial genetics, and the significant interactions between the nuclear and mitochondrial genomes has made it particularly challenging to research and develop therapies. This review article discusses some of the advances that have been made in the field to date. While the prognosis is poor with no current substantial treatment options, multiple studies are underway to understand the etiology, pathogenesis, and pathophysiology of Leigh syndrome. With advances in available research tools leading to a better understanding of the mitochondria in health and disease, there is hope for novel treatment options in the future.Alzheimer's disease is one of the most frequent forms of dementia. It is a progressive neurodegenerative disease, characterized by presence of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the brain. Obesity is regarded as abnormal fat accumulation with deleterious impact on human health. There is full scientific evidence that obesity and the metabolic comorbidities (e.g., insulin resistance, hyperglycaemia, and type 2 diabetes) are related to Alzheimer's disease and likely in the causative pathway. Numerous studies have identified several overlapping neurodegenerative mechanisms, including oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and inflammation. In this review, we present how obesity and the associated lipotoxicity as well as chronic inflammation initiate a state of insulin resistance that in turn, may have a role in causing the characteristic cerebral alterations of AD. In particular, we focus on the molecular mechanisms linking the obesity-induced impairment in insulin signalling to the upregulation of Aβ aggregation, tau hyper-phosphorylation, inflammation, oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction.With the advanced discoveries in the field of pathogenesis, a series of cerebral diseases, such as cerebral ischaemia, Alzheimer's disease, and depression, have been found to have multiple signalling targets in the microenvironment. Only a few existing agents have been shown to have curative effects due to this specific circumstance. In recent decades, active ingredients isolated from natural plants have been shown to be crucial for original drug development. Geniposide, mainly extracted from Gardenia jasminoides Ellis, is representative of these natural products. Geniposide demonstrates various biological activities in the treatment of cerebral, cardiovascular, hepatic, tumorous, and other diseases. The multiple protective effects of geniposide on the brain have especially drawn increasing attention. Thus, this article specifically reviews the characteristics of current models of cerebral ischaemia and illustrates the possible effects of geniposide and its pathogenetic mechanisms on these models. Geniposide has been shown to significantly reduce the area of cerebral infarction and alleviate neuronal damage and necrosis mainly by inhibiting inflammatory signals, including NLRP3, TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β. Neuronal protection was also involved in activating the PI3K/Akt and Wnt/catenin pathways. Geniposide was able to increase autophagy and inhibit apoptosis by regulating the function of mTOR in treating Alzheimer's disease. Geniposide has also been shown to act as a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonist to reduce amyloid plaques and inhibit oxidative stress to alleviate memory impairment as well as synaptic loss. Moreover, geniposide has been shown to exert antidepressant effects primarily by regulating the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Detailed explorations have shown that the biological activities of inhibiting inflammatory cytokine secretion, alleviating oxidative stress, and suppressing mitochondrial damage are also involved in the mechanism of action of geniposide. Therefore, geniposide is a promising agent awaiting further exploration for the treatment of cerebral diseases via various phenotypes or signalling pathways.Leber's Hereditary Optic Neuropathy (LHON) is an inherited optic nerve disorder. It is a mitochondrially inherited disease due to point mutation in the MT-ND1, MT-ND4, and MT-ND6 genes of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) coding for complex I subunit proteins. These mutations affect the assembly of the mitochondrial complex I and hence the electron transport chain leading to mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage. Optic nerve cells like retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are more sensitive to mitochondrial loss and oxidative damage which results in the progressive degeneration of RGCs at the axonal region of the optic nerve leading to bilateral vision loss. Currently, gene therapy using Adeno-associated viral vector (AAV) is widely studied for the therapeutics application in LHON. Our review highlights the application of cell-based therapy for LHON. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are known to rescue cells from the pre-apoptotic stage by transferring healthy mitochondria through tunneling nanotubes (TNT) for cellular oxidative function. Empowering the transfer of healthy mitochondria using MSCs may replace the mitochondria with pathogenic mutation and possibly benefit the cells from progressive damage. This review discusses the ongoing research in LHON and mitochondrial transfer mechanisms to explore its scope in inherited optic neuropathyGenetic disorders and congenital abnormalities are present in 2-5% of births all over the world and can cause up to 50% of all early childhood deaths. The establishment of sophisticated and controlled techniques for customizing DNA manipulation is significant for the therapeutic role in such disorders and further research on them. One such technique is CRISPR that is significant towards optimizing genome editing and therapies, metabolic fluxes as well as artificial genetic systems. CRISPR-Cas9 is a molecular appliance that is applied in the areas of genetic and protein engineering. The CRISPR-CAS system is an integral element of prokaryotic adaptive immunity that allows prokaryotic cells to identify and kill any foreign DNA. The Gene editing property of CRISPR finds various applications like diagnostics and therapeutics in cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, genetic diseases, blindness, etc. This review discusses applications of CRISPR as a therapeutic in various disorders including several genetic diseases (including sickle cell anemia, blindness, thalassemia, cystic fibrosis, hereditary tyrosinemia type I, duchenne muscular dystrophy, mitochondrial disorders), Cancer, Huntington's disease and viral infections (like HIV, COVID, etc.) along with the prospects concerning them. CRISPR-based therapy is also being researched and defined for COVID-19. The related mechanism of CRISPR has been discussed alongside highlighting challenges involved in therapeutic applications of CRISPR.Antiretroviral therapy (ART) controls human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) replication and prevents disease progression but does not eradicate HIV-1. The persistence of a reservoir of latently infected cells represents the main barrier to a cure. "Shock and kill" is a promising strategy involving latency reversing agents (LRAs) to reactivate HIV-1 from latently infected cells, thus exposing the infected cells to killing by the immune system or clearance agents. Here, we review advances to the "shock and kill" strategy made through the nonhuman primate (NHP) model, highlighting recently identified latency reversing agents and approaches such as mimetics of the second mitochondrial activator of caspase (SMACm), experimental CD8+ T cell depletion, immune checkpoint blockade (ICI), and toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists. We also discuss the advantages and limits of the NHP model for HIV cure research and methods developed to evaluate the efficacy of in vivo treatment with LRAs in NHPs.Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative diseases with motor disturbances, cognitive decline, and behavioral impairment. It is characterized by the extracellular aggregation of amyloid-ß plaques and the intracellular accumulation of tau protein. AD patients show a cognitive decline, which has been associated with oxidative stress, as well as mitochondrial dysfunction. Alpha-lipoic acid (α-LA), a natural antioxidant present in food and used as a dietary supplement, has been considered a promising agent for the prevention or treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. Despite multiple preclinical studies indicating beneficial effects of α-LA in memory functioning, and pointing to its neuroprotective effects, to date only a few studies have examined its effects in humans. Studies performed in animal models of memory loss associated with aging and AD have shown that α-LA improves memory in a variety of behavioral paradigms. Furthermore, molecular mechanisms underlying α-LA effects have also been investigated. Accordingly, α-LA shows antioxidant, antiapoptotic, anti-inflammatory, glioprotective, metal chelating properties in both in vivo and in vitro studies. In addition, it has been shown that α-LA reverses age-associated loss of neurotransmitters and their receptors. The review article aimed at summarizing and discussing the main studies investigating the neuroprotective effects of α-LA on cognition as well as its molecular effects, to improve the understanding of the therapeutic potential of α-LA in patients suffering from neurodegenerative disorders, supporting the development of clinical trials with α-LA.Gut microbiota forms a symbiotic relationship with the host and maintains the ecological balance of the internal and external environment of the human body. However, dysbiosis of the gut microbiota and immune deficiency, as well as environmental changes, can destroy the host-microbial balance, leading to the occurrence of a variety of diseases, such as polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and obesity. Meanwhile, diseases can also affect gut microbiota, forming a vicious cycle. The role of the intestinal microbiota in different diseases have been proven by several studies; however, as a common target of PCOS and T2DM, there are few reports on the treatment of different diseases through the regulation of intestinal microbiota as the critical correlation. This review analyzed the common mechanisms of intestinal microbiota in PCOS and T2DM, including the dysbiosis of gut microbiota, endotoxemia, short-chain fatty acids, biotransformation of bile acids, and synthesis of amino acid in regulating insulin resistance, obesity, chronic inflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction. The possible therapeutic effects of probiotics and/or prebiotics, fecal microbiota transplantation, bariatric surgery, dietary intervention, drug treatment, and other treatments targeted at regulating intestinal microbiota were also elucidated.Membrane-contact sites are getting more and more credit for their indispensable role in maintenance of cell function and homeostasis. In the last decades, the ER-mitochondrial contact sites in particular received a lot of attention. While our knowledge of ER-mitochondrial contact sites increases steadily, the focus often lies on a static exploration of their functions. However, it is increasingly clear that these contact sites are very dynamic. In this review, we highlight the dynamic nature of ER-mitochondrial contact sites and the role of kinases and phosphatases therein with a focus on recent findings. Phosphorylation events allow for rapid integration of information on the protein level, impacting protein function, localization and interaction at ER-mitochondrial contact sites. To illustrate the importance of these events and to put them in a broader perspective, we connect them to pathologies like diabetes type II, Parkinson's disease and cancer.