Protein kinases (PKs) have been recognized as central nervous system (CNS)-disease-relevant targets due to their master regulatory role in different signal transduction cascades in the neuroscience space. Among them, GSK-3β, FYN, and DYRK1A play a crucial role in the neurodegeneration context, and the deregulation of all three PKs has been linked to different CNS disorders with unmet medical needs, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), and several neuromuscular disorders. The multifactorial nature of these diseases, along with the failure of many advanced CNS clinical trials, and the lengthy approval process of a novel CNS drug have strongly limited the CNS drug discovery. However, in the near-decade from 2010 to 2020, several computer-assisted drug design strategies have been combined with synthetic efforts to develop potent and selective GSK-3β, FYN, and DYRK1A inhibitors as disease-modifying agents. In this review, we described both structural and functional aspects of GSK-3β, FYN, and DYRK1A and their involvement and crosstalk in different CNS pathological signaling pathways. Moreover, we outlined attractive medicinal chemistry approaches including multi-target drug design strategies applied to overcome some limitations of known PKs inhibitors and discover improved modulators with suitable blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability and drug-like properties.Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) affects approximately 466 million people worldwide, which is projected to reach 900 million by 2050. Its histological characteristics are lesions in cochlear hair cells, supporting cells, and auditory nerve endings. Neurological disorders cover a wide range of diseases affecting the nervous system, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), etc. Many studies have revealed that neurological disorders manifest with hearing loss, in addition to typical nervous symptoms. The prevalence, manifestations, and neuropathological mechanisms underlying vary among different diseases. In this review, we discuss the relevant literature, from clinical trials to research mice models, to provide an overview of auditory dysfunctions in the most common neurological disorders, particularly those associated with hearing loss, and to explain their underlying pathological and molecular mechanisms.The gangliosidoses are a family of neurodegenerative lysosomal storage diseases that have recently seen promising advances in gene therapy. White matter deficits are well established components of gangliosidosis pathology that are now receiving more attention because they are partially refractory to correction by gene therapy. After a brief synopsis of normal myelinogenesis, this review outlines current viewpoints on the origin of white matter deficits in the gangliosidoses and potential obstacles to treating them effectively by gene therapy. Dysmyelinogenesis (failure of myelin sheaths to form properly) is proposed as the predominant contributor to white matter pathology, but precise mechanistic details are not well understood. The involvement of neuronal storage deficits may extend beyond secondary demyelination (destruction of myelin due to axonal loss) and contribute to dysmyelinogenesis. Preclinical studies in animal models of the gangliosidoses have substantially improved lifespan and quality of life, leading to the initiation of several clinical trials. However, improvement of white matter pathology has lagged behind other metrics and few evidence-based explanations have been proposed to date. Research groups in the field are encouraged to include myelin-specific investigations in future gene therapy work to address this gap in knowledge.Breakthroughs in molecular medicine have positioned the amyloid-β (Aβ) pathway at the center of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology. While the detailed molecular mechanisms of the pathway and the spatial-temporal dynamics leading to synaptic failure, neurodegeneration, and clinical onset are still under intense investigation, the established biochemical alterations of the Aβ cycle remain the core biological hallmark of AD and are promising targets for the development of disease-modifying therapies. Here, we systematically review and update the vast state-of-the-art literature of Aβ science with evidence from basic research studies to human genetic and multi-modal biomarker investigations, which supports a crucial role of Aβ pathway dyshomeostasis in AD pathophysiological dynamics. We discuss the evidence highlighting a differentiated interaction of distinct Aβ species with other AD-related biological mechanisms, such as tau-mediated, neuroimmune and inflammatory changes, as well as a neurochemical imbalance. Through the lens of the latest development of multimodal in vivo biomarkers of AD, this cross-disciplinary review examines the compelling hypothesis- and data-driven rationale for Aβ-targeting therapeutic strategies in development for the early treatment of AD.Genetic disorders and congenital abnormalities are present in 2-5% of births all over the world and can cause up to 50% of all early childhood deaths. The establishment of sophisticated and controlled techniques for customizing DNA manipulation is significant for the therapeutic role in such disorders and further research on them. One such technique is CRISPR that is significant towards optimizing genome editing and therapies, metabolic fluxes as well as artificial genetic systems. CRISPR-Cas9 is a molecular appliance that is applied in the areas of genetic and protein engineering. The CRISPR-CAS system is an integral element of prokaryotic adaptive immunity that allows prokaryotic cells to identify and kill any foreign DNA. The Gene editing property of CRISPR finds various applications like diagnostics and therapeutics in cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, genetic diseases, blindness, etc. This review discusses applications of CRISPR as a therapeutic in various disorders including several genetic diseases (including sickle cell anemia, blindness, thalassemia, cystic fibrosis, hereditary tyrosinemia type I, duchenne muscular dystrophy, mitochondrial disorders), Cancer, Huntington's disease and viral infections (like HIV, COVID, etc.) along with the prospects concerning them. CRISPR-based therapy is also being researched and defined for COVID-19. The related mechanism of CRISPR has been discussed alongside highlighting challenges involved in therapeutic applications of CRISPR.Rhynchophylline (Rhy) is a plant-derived indole alkaloid isolated from Uncaria species. Both the plant and the alkaloid possess numerous protective properties such as anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective, anti-hypertensive, anti-rhythmic, and sedative effects. Several studies support the significance of the anti-inflammatory activity of the plant as an underlying mechanism for most of the pharmacological activities of the alkaloid. Rhy is effective in protecting both the central nervous system and cardiovascular system. Cerebro-cardiovascular disease primarily occurs due to changes in lifestyle habits. Many previous studies have highlighted the significance of Rhy in modulating calcium channels and potassium channels, thereby protecting the brain from neurodegenerative diseases and related effects. Rhy also has anticoagulation and anti-platelet aggregation activity. Although Rhy has displayed its role in protecting the cardiovascular system, very little is explored about its intervention in early atherosclerosis. Extensive studies are required to understand the cardioprotective effects of Rhye. This review summarized and discussed the various pharmacological effects of Rhy in neuro- and cardioprotection and in particular the relevance of Rhy in preventing early atherosclerosis using Rhy-loaded nanoparticles.Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative diseases with motor disturbances, cognitive decline, and behavioral impairment. It is characterized by the extracellular aggregation of amyloid-ß plaques and the intracellular accumulation of tau protein. AD patients show a cognitive decline, which has been associated with oxidative stress, as well as mitochondrial dysfunction. Alpha-lipoic acid (α-LA), a natural antioxidant present in food and used as a dietary supplement, has been considered a promising agent for the prevention or treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. Despite multiple preclinical studies indicating beneficial effects of α-LA in memory functioning, and pointing to its neuroprotective effects, to date only a few studies have examined its effects in humans. Studies performed in animal models of memory loss associated with aging and AD have shown that α-LA improves memory in a variety of behavioral paradigms. Furthermore, molecular mechanisms underlying α-LA effects have also been investigated. Accordingly, α-LA shows antioxidant, antiapoptotic, anti-inflammatory, glioprotective, metal chelating properties in both in vivo and in vitro studies. In addition, it has been shown that α-LA reverses age-associated loss of neurotransmitters and their receptors. The review article aimed at summarizing and discussing the main studies investigating the neuroprotective effects of α-LA on cognition as well as its molecular effects, to improve the understanding of the therapeutic potential of α-LA in patients suffering from neurodegenerative disorders, supporting the development of clinical trials with α-LA.Protein aggregation is a feature of numerous neurodegenerative diseases. However, regulated, often reversible formation of protein aggregates, also known as condensates, helps control a wide range of cellular activities including stress response, gene expression, memory, cell development and differentiation. This review presents examples of aggregates found in biological systems, how they are used, and cellular strategies that control aggregation and disaggregation. We include features of the aggregating proteins themselves, environmental factors, co-aggregates, post-translational modifications and well-known aggregation-directed activities that influence their formation, material state, stability and dissolution. We highlight the emerging roles of biomolecular condensates in early animal development, and disaggregation processing proteins that have recently been shown to play key roles in gametogenesis and embryogenesis.Mycotoxins are fungal metabolites that can cause various diseases in humans and animals. The adverse health effects of mycotoxins such as liver failure, immune deficiency, and cancer are well-described. However, growing evidence suggests an additional link between these fungal metabolites and neurodegenerative diseases. Despite the wealth of these initial reports, reliable conclusions are still constrained by limited access to human patients and availability of suitable cell or animal model systems. This review summarizes knowledge on mycotoxins associated with neurodegenerative diseases and the assumed underlying pathophysiological mechanisms. The limitations of the common in vivo and in vitro experiments to identify the role of mycotoxins in neurotoxicity and thereby in neurodegenerative diseases are elucidated and possible future perspectives to further evolve this research field are presented.Glaucoma is the most substantial cause of irreversible blinding, which is accompanied by progressive retinal ganglion cell damage. Retinal ganglion cells are energy-intensive neurons that connect the brain and retina, and depend on mitochondrial homeostasis to transduce visual information through the brain. As cofactors that regulate many metabolic signals, iron and zinc have attracted increasing attention in studies on neurons and neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we summarize the research connecting iron, zinc, neuronal mitochondria, and glaucomatous injury, with the aim of updating and expanding the current view of how retinal ganglion cells degenerate in glaucoma, which can reveal novel potential targets for neuroprotection.