The endocannabinoid system is found in most, if not all, mammalian organs and is involved in a variety of physiological functions, ranging from the control of synaptic plasticity in the brain to the modulation of smooth muscle motility in the gastrointestinal tract. This signaling complex consists of G protein-coupled cannabinoid receptors, endogenous ligands for those receptors (endocannabinoids) and enzymes/transporters responsible for the formation and deactivation of these ligands. There are two subtypes of cannabinoid receptors, CB1 and CB2, and two major endocannabinoids, arachidonoylethanolamide (anandamide) and 2-arachidonoyl-sn-glycerol (2-AG), which are produced upon demand through cleavage of distinct phospholipid precursors. All molecular components of the endocannabinoid system are represented in the adipose organ, where endocannabinoid signals are thought to regulate critical homeostatic processes, including adipogenesis, lipogenesis and thermogenesis. Importantly, obesity was found to be associated with excess endocannabinoid activity in visceral fat depots, and the therapeutic potential of normalizing such activity by blocking CB1 receptors has been the focus of substantial preclinical and clinical research. Results have been mixed thus far, mostly owing to the emergence of psychiatric side effects rooted in the protective functions served by brain endocannabinoids in mood and affect regulation. Further studies about the roles played by the endocannabinoid system in the adipose organ will offer new insights into the pathogenesis of obesity and might help identify new ways to leverage this signaling complex for therapeutic benefit.Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA, 1-acyl-2-hemolytic-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate) extracted from membrane phospholipid is a kind of simple bioactive glycophospholipid, which has many biological functions such as stimulating cell multiplication, cytoskeleton recombination, cell survival, drug-fast, synthesis of DNA and ion transport. Current studies have shown that six G-coupled protein receptors (LPAR1-6) can be activated by LPA. They stimulate a variety of signal transduction pathways through heterotrimeric G-proteins (such as Gα12/13, Gαq/11, Gαi/o and GαS). LPA and its receptors play vital roles in cancers, nervous system diseases, cardiovascular diseases, liver diseases, metabolic diseases, etc. In this article, we discussed the structure of LPA receptors and elucidated their functions in various diseases, in order to better understand them and point out new therapeutic schemes for them.The incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has risen exponentially worldwide over the past decade. A growing body of research indicates that AD is linked to diabetes mellitus (DM) and suggests that impaired insulin signaling acts as a crucial risk factor in determining the progression of this devastating disease. Many studies suggest people with diabetes, especially type 2 diabetes, are at higher risk of eventually developing Alzheimer's dementia or other dementias. Despite nationwide efforts to increase awareness, the prevalence of Diabetes Mellitus (DM) has risen significantly in the Middle East and North African (MENA) region which might be due to rapid urbanization, lifestyle changes, lack of physical activity and rise in obesity. Growing body of evidence indicates that DM and AD are linked because both conditions involve impaired glucose homeostasis and altered brain function. Current theories and hypothesis clearly implicate that defective insulin signaling in the brain contributes to synaptic dysfunction and cognitive deficits in AD. In the periphery, low-grade chronic inflammation leads to insulin resistance followed by tissue deterioration. Thus insulin resistance acts as a bridge between DM and AD. There is pressing need to understand on how DM increases the risk of AD as well as the underlying mechanisms, due to the projected increase in age related disorders. Here we aim to review the incidence of AD and DM in the Middle East and the possible link between insulin signaling and ApoE carrier status on Aβ aggregation, tau hyperphosphorylation, inflammation, oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in AD. We also critically reviewed mutation studies in Arab population which might influence DM induced AD. In addition, recent clinical trials and animal studies conducted to evaluate the efficiency of anti-diabetic drugs have been reviewed.Acyl-lipids such as intracellular phospholipids, galactolipids, sphingolipids, and surface lipids play a crucial role in plant cells by serving as major components of cellular membranes, seed storage oils, and extracellular lipids such as cutin and suberin. Plant lipids are also widely used to make food, renewable biomaterials, and fuels. As such, enormous efforts have been made to uncover the specific roles of different genes and enzymes involved in lipid biosynthetic pathways over the last few decades. sn-Glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferases (GPAT) are a group of important enzymes catalyzing the acylation of sn-glycerol-3-phosphate at the sn-1 or sn-2 position to produce lysophosphatidic acids. This reaction constitutes the first step of storage-lipid assembly and is also important in polar- and extracellular-lipid biosynthesis. Ten GPAT have been identified in Arabidopsis, and many homologs have also been reported in other plant species. These enzymes differentially localize to plastids, mitochondria, and the endoplasmic reticulum, where they have different biological functions, resulting in distinct metabolic fate(s) for lysophosphatidic acid. Although studies in recent years have led to new discoveries about plant GPAT, many gaps still exist in our understanding of this group of enzymes. In this article, we highlight current biochemical and molecular knowledge regarding plant GPAT, and also discuss deficiencies in our understanding of their functions in the context of plant acyl-lipid biosynthesis.One of the key molecular events underlying the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is the aberrant misfolding and aggregation of the α-synuclein (αS) protein into higher-order oligomers that play a key role in neuronal dysfunction and degeneration. A wealth of experimental data supports the hypothesis that the neurotoxicity of αS oligomers is intrinsically linked with their ability to interact with, and disrupt, biological membranes; especially those membranes having negatively-charged surfaces and/or lipid packing defects. Consequences of αS-lipid interaction include increased membrane tension, permeation by pore formation, membrane lysis and/or leakage due to the extraction of lipids from the bilayer. Moreover, we assert that the interaction of αS with a liquid-disordering phospholipid uniquely enriched in mitochondrial membranes, namely cardiolipin (1,3-diphosphatidyl-sn-glycerol, CL), helps target the αS oligomeric complexes intracellularly to mitochondria. Binding mediated by CL may thus represent an important pathomechanism by which cytosolic αS could physically associate with mitochondrial membranes and disrupt their integrity. Impaired mitochondrial function culminates in a cellular bioenergetic crisis and apoptotic death. To conclude, we advocate the accelerated discovery of new drugs targeting this pathway in order to restore mitochondrial function in PD.A vital function of the cell membrane in all living organism is to maintain the membrane permeability barrier and fluidity. The composition of the phospholipid bilayer is distinct in archaea when compared to bacteria and eukarya. In archaea, isoprenoid hydrocarbon side chains are linked via an ether bond to the sn-glycerol-1-phosphate backbone. In bacteria and eukarya on the other hand, fatty acid side chains are linked via an ester bond to the sn-glycerol-3-phosphate backbone. The polar head groups are globally shared in the three domains of life. The unique membrane lipids of archaea have been implicated not only in the survival and adaptation of the organisms to extreme environments but also to form the basis of the membrane composition of the last universal common ancestor (LUCA). In nature, a diverse range of archaeal lipids is found, the most common are the diether (or archaeol) and the tetraether (or caldarchaeol) lipids that form a monolayer. Variations in chain length, cyclization and other modifications lead to diversification of these lipids. The biosynthesis of these lipids is not yet well understood however progress in the last decade has led to a comprehensive understanding of the biosynthesis of archaeol. This review describes the current knowledge of the biosynthetic pathway of archaeal ether lipids; insights on the stability and robustness of archaeal lipid membranes; and evolutionary aspects of the lipid divide and the LUCA. It examines recent advances made in the field of pathway reconstruction in bacteria.Cardiolipin is a major membrane phospholipid in the mitochondria and is essential for cellular energy metabolism mediated through mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. Recent studies indicate that it plays a diverse role in cellular metabolism. Eukaryotic cardiolipin is synthesized de novo from phosphatidic acid via the cytidine-5'-diphosphate-1,2-diacyl-sn-glycerol pathway and is deacylated to monolysocardiolipin in order for it to be remodelled into the form that is observed in mitochondrial membranes. This resynthesis of deacylated cardiolipin from monolysocardiolipin occurs via the Barth Syndrome gene product tafazzin and acyllysocardiolipin acyltransferase-1, monolysocardiolipin acyltransferase-1 and the alpha subunit of trifunctional protein. Heart failure is a disease condition in which the amount and type of cardiolipin is altered. Several animal models have been generated to study the role of altered cardiolipin in heart failure. In many of these models loss of the tetralinoleoyl-cardiolipin species is observed during the development of the heart failure. In the doxycycline inducible short hairpin RNA tafazzin knock down mouse, loss of tetralinoleoyl-cardiolipin is associated with a mitochondrial bioenergetic disruption. Reduction in mitochondrial supercomplex formation and NADH dehydrogenase activity within these supercomplexes is observed. Modulation of CL fatty acyl composition may serve as a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of several pathologies including cardiac dysfunction.We propose that increasing cardiolipin may improve mitochondrial function and potentially serve as a therapy for diseases which exhibit mitochondrial dysfunction involving reduced cardiolipin.Sn-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase (GPAT) catalyzes the acylation at sn-1 position of glycerol-3-phosphate to produce lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) in an acyl-CoA or acyl-ACP-dependent manner, which is the initial and rate-determining step of TAG biosynthetic pathway. Some GPATs have sn-2 transfer activity. Part members of the GPAT gene family have been cloned from different plant species. Based on their subcellular localizations, GPATs can be classified into three types, plastid GPATs, mitochondria GPATs and endoplasmic reticulum GPATs. GPATs exhibit diverse biochemical properties and are involved in synthesis of several lipids such as TAG, suberin, and cutin which play important roles in the growth and development of plants. This review summarized the current understanding of the chromosomal locus and gene structure of GPAT genes and the subcellular localization, sn-2 regiospecificity, substrates specialty, and functions of GPATs in plants.Glycosylated antitumor ether lipids (GAELs) are distinguished from the alkyllysophospholipids or alkylphosphocholines classes of antitumor ether lipids (AEL) by the presence of a sugar moiety. Non-phosphorus GAELs, the subject of this review, have a sugar moiety in place of the phosphobase found in alkyllysophospholipids. Analogues of non-phosphorus GAELs with glucose, maltose, arabinose, or disaccharide moieties have been synthesized. Non-phosphorus GAELs with monosaccharides have cytotoxic and antiproliferative effects against cancer cells derived from a wide range of tissues, including drug resistant cell lines. The most active compound of this group to date is 1-O-hexadecyl-2-O-methyl-3-O-(2'-amino-2'-deoxy-β-D-glucopyranosyl)-sn-glycerol (11), which displays in vitro activity similar to or greater than that of ET-18-OCH3, the AEL "gold" standard. While the detailed molecular mechanism of action of non-phosphorus GAELs is not known, the data indicate that non-phosphorus GAELs are taken up by endocytosis and incorporated into early endosomes. The presence of non-phosphorus GAELs perturbs the maturation of the endocytic vesicles, resulting in the formation of large acidic vacuoles. Cell death appears to be the result of the release of cathepsins from the vacuoles into the cytosol and subsequent activation of a death pathway that is independent of the mitochondria and independent of apoptosis. The ability of these GAELs to kill cells via an apoptosis-independent mechanism makes them prime candidates for development of effective compounds against chemo-resistant tumors and cancer stem cells. The disaccharide-linked GAELs do not have cytotoxic activity but rather inhibit cancer cell motility due to the ability of the compounds to block specific calcium-activated potassium channels in cells. The antitumor activities displayed by these experimental compounds augurs well for their eventual development into clinically useful agents for cancer treatment.Cardiolipin is a major phospholipid in mitochondria and is involved in the generation of cellular energy in the form of ATP. In mammalian and eukaryotic cells it is synthesized via the cytidine-5'-diphosphate-1,2-diacyl-sn-glycerol phosphate pathway. This brief review will describe some of the more recent studies on mammalian cardiolipin biosynthesis and provide an overview of regulation of cardiolipin biosynthesis. In addition, the important role that this key phospholipid plays in disease processes including heart failure, diabetes, thyroid hormone disease and the genetic disease Barth Syndrome will be discussed.